docs/source/configuration.rst, before:

Configuration
-------------

Circus can be configured using an ini-style configuration file.

Example::

    [circus]
    check_delay = 5
    endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5555
    pubsub_endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5556
    include = /path/to/configs/*.enabled.ini

    [watcher:myprogram]
    cmd = python
    args = -u myprogram.py $(WID) $(ENV.VAR)
    warmup_delay = 0
    numprocesses = 5

    # will push in test.log the stream every 300 ms
    stdout_stream.class = FileStream
    stdout_stream.filename = test.log
    stdout_stream.refresh_time = 0.3

    [plugin:statsd]
    use = circus.plugins.statsd.StatsdEmitter
    host = localhost
    port = 8125
    sample_rate = 1.0
    application_name = example

    [socket:web]
    host = localhost
    port = 8080



circus - single section
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    **endpoint**
        The ZMQ socket used to manage Circus via **circusctl**.
        (default: *tcp://127.0.0.1:5555*)
    **pubsub_endpoint**
        The ZMQ PUB/SUB socket receiving publications of events.
        (default: *tcp://127.0.0.1:5556*)
    **stats_endpoint**
        The ZMQ PUB/SUB socket receiving publications of stats.
        If not configured, this feature is deactivated.
        (default: *tcp://127.0.0.1:5557*)
    **check_delay**
        The polling interval in seconds for the ZMQ socket. (default: 5)
    **include**
        List of config files to include. (default: None). You can use wildcards
        (`*`) to include particular schemes for your files.
    **include_dir**
        List of config directories. All files matching `*.ini` under each
        directory will be included. (default: None)
    **stream_backend**
        Defines the type of backend to use for the streaming. Possible
        values are **thread** or **gevent**. (default: thread)
    **warmup_delay**
        The interval in seconds between two watchers start. (default: 0)
    **httpd**
        If set to True, Circus runs the circushttpd daemon. (default: False)
    **httpd_host**
        The host ran by the circushttpd daemon. (default: localhost)
    **httpd_port**
        The port ran by the circushttpd daemon. (default: 8080)
    **debug**
        If set to True, all Circus stout/stderr daemons are redirected to circusd
        stdout/stderr (default: False)

.. note::

   If you use the gevent backend for **stream_backend**, you need to install the
   forked version of gevent_zmq that's located at
   https://github.com/tarekziade/gevent-zeromq because it contains a fix that has
   not made it upstream yet.


watcher:NAME - as many sections as you want
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    **NAME**
        The name of the watcher. This name is used in **circusctl**
    **cmd**
        The executable program to run.
    **args**
        Command-line arguments to pass to the program. You can use the python
        format syntax here to build the parameters. Environment variables are
        available, as well as the worker id and the environment variables that
        you passed, if any, with the "env" parameter. See
        :ref:`formating_cmd` for more information on this.
    **shell**
        If True, the processes are run in the shell (default: False)
    **working_dir**
        The working dir for the processes (default: None)
    **uid**
        The user id or name the command should run with.
        (The current uid is the default).
    **gid**
        The group id or name the command should run
        with. (The current gid is the default).
    **env**
        The environment passed to the processes (default: None)
    **copy_env**
        If set to true, the local environment variables will be copied and
        passed to the workers when spawning them. (Default: False)
    **copy_path**
        If set to true, **sys.path** is passed in the subprocess environ
        using *PYTHONPATH*. **copy_env** has to be true.
        (Default: False)
    **warmup_delay**
        The delay (in seconds) between running processes.
    **numprocesses**
        The number of processes to run for this watcher.
    **rlimit_LIMIT**
        Set resource limit LIMIT for the watched processes. The
        config name should match the RLIMIT_* constants (not case
        sensitive) listed in the `Python resource module reference
        <http://docs.python.org/library/resource.html#resource-limits>`_.
        For example, the config line 'rlimit_nofile = 500' sets the maximum
        number of open files to 500.
    **stderr_stream.class**
        A fully qualified Python class name that will be instanciated, and
        will receive the **stderr** stream of all processes in its
        :func:`__call__` method.

        Circus provides three classes you can use without prefix:

        - :class:`FileStream`: writes in a file
        - :class:`QueueStream`: write in a memory Queue
        - :class:`StdoutStream`: writes in the stdout

    **stderr_stream.***
        All options starting with *stderr_stream.* other than *class* will
        be passed the constructor when creating an instance of the
        class defined in **stderr_stream.class**.
    **stdout_stream.class**
        A fully qualified Python class name that will be instanciated, and
        will receive the **stdout** stream of all processes in its
        :func:`__call__` method.
        Circus provides three classes you can use without prefix:

        - :class:`FileStream`: writes in a file
        - :class:`QueueStream`: write in a memory Queue
        - :class:`StdoutStream`: writes in the stdout

    **stdout_stream.***
        All options starting with *stdout_stream.* other than *class* will
        be passed the constructor when creating an instance of the
        class defined in **stdout_stream.class**.

    **send_hup**
        if True, a process reload will be done by sending the SIGHUP signal.
        Defaults to False.

    **max_retry**
        The number of times we attempt to start a process, before
        we abandon and stop the whole watcher. Defaults to 5.

    **priority**
        Integer that defines a priority for the watcher. When the
        Arbiter do some operations on all watchers, it will sort them
        with this field, from the bigger number to the smallest.
        Defaults to 0.

    **singleton**
        If set to True, this watcher will have at the most one process.
        Defaults to False.

    **use_sockets**
        If set to True, this watcher will be able to access defined sockets
        via their file descriptors. If False, all parent fds are closed
        when the child process is forked. Defaults to False.

    **max_age**
        If set then the process will be restarted sometime after max_age
        seconds. This is useful when processes deal with pool of connectors:
        restarting processes improves the load balancing. Defaults to being
        disabled.

    **max_age_variance**
        If max_age is set then the process will live between max_age and
        max_age + random(0, max_age_variance) seconds. This avoids restarting
        all processes for a watcher at once. Defaults to 30 seconds.


socket:NAME - as many sections as you want
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    **host**
        The host of the socket. Defaults to 'localhost'
    **port**
        The port. Defaults to 8080.
    **family**
        The socket family. Can be 'AF_UNIX', 'AF_INET' or 'AF_INET6'.
        Defaults to 'AF_INET'.
    **type**
        The socket type. Can be 'SOCK_STREAM', 'SOCK_DGRAM', 'SOCK_RAW',
        'SOCK_RDM' or 'SOCK_SEQPACKET'. Defaults to 'SOCK_STREAM'.


Once a socket is created, the *${socket:NAME}* string can be used in the
command of a watcher. Circus will replace it by the FD value.


plugin:NAME - as many sections as you want
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    **use**
        The fully qualified name that points to the plugin class.
    **anything else**
        Every other key found in the section is passed to the
        plugin constructor in the **config** mapping.


Currently `circus`is ships the following plugins, which you can configure as follows:

Statsd
******
    This plugin publishes all circus events to the statsd service.
    
    **use**
         set to 'circus.plugins.statsd.StatsdEmitter'

    **application_name**
        the name used to identify the bucket prefix to emit the stats to (it will be prefixed with "circus." and suffixed with ".watcher")

    **host**
        the host to post the statds data to

    **port**
        the port the statsd daemon listens on

    **sample_rate**
        if you prefer a different sample rate than 1, you can set it here


FullStats
*********

    An extension on the Statsd plugin that is also publishing the process stats. As
    such it has the same configuration options as Statsd and the following.

    **use**
        set to 'circus.plugins.statsd.FullStats'

    **loop_rate**
        the frequency the plugin should ask for the stats in seconds. Default: 60.


RedisObserver
*************

    This services observers a redis process for you, publishes the information to statsd
    and offers to restart the service when it doesn't react in a given timeout. This
    plugin requires `redis-py <https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py>`_  to run.

    It has the same configuration as statsd and adds the following:

    **use**
        set to   'circus.plugins.redis_observer.RedisObserver'

    **loop_rate**
        the frequency the plugin should ask for the stats in seconds. Default: 60.

    **redis_url**
        the database to check for as a redis url. Default: "redis://localhost:6379/0"

    **timeout**
        the timeout in seconds the request can take before it is considered down. Defaults to 5.

    **restart_on_timeout**
        the name of the process to restart when the request timed out. No restart triggered when not given. Default: None.



HttpObserver
************

    This services observers a http process for you by pinging a certain website
    regularly. Similar to the redis observer it offers to restart the service on an
    error. It requires `tornado <http://www.tornadoweb.org>`_  to run.

    It has the same configuration as statsd and adds the following:

    **use**
        set to 'circus.plugins.http_observer.HttpObserver'

    **loop_rate**
        the frequency the plugin should ask for the stats in seconds. Default: 60.

    **check_url**
        the url to check for. Default: "http://localhost/"

    **timeout**
        the timeout in seconds the request can take before it is considered down. Defaults to 10.

    **restart_on_error**
        the name of the process to restart when the request timed out or returned
        any other kind of error. No restart triggered when not given. Default: None.


.. _formating_cmd:

Formating the commands and arguments with dynamic variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As you may have seen, it is possible to pass some information that are computed
dynamically when running the processes. Among other things, you can get the
worker id (WID) and all the options that are passed to the :class:`Process`.
Additionally, it is possible to access the options passed to the
:class:`Watcher` which instanciated the process.

For instance, if you want to access some variables that are contained in the
environment, you would need to do it with a setting like this::

    cmd = "make-me-a-coffee --sugar $(CIRCUS.ENV.SUGAR_AMOUNT)"

This works with both `cmd` and `args`.

**Important**:

- All variables are prefixed with `circus.`
- The replacement is case insensitive.

Commit message:

Add a note about the "wid" parameter.

docs/source/configuration.rst, after:

Configuration
-------------

Circus can be configured using an ini-style configuration file.

Example::

    [circus]
    check_delay = 5
    endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5555
    pubsub_endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5556
    include = /path/to/configs/*.enabled.ini

    [watcher:myprogram]
    cmd = python
    args = -u myprogram.py $(WID) $(ENV.VAR)
    warmup_delay = 0
    numprocesses = 5

    # will push in test.log the stream every 300 ms
    stdout_stream.class = FileStream
    stdout_stream.filename = test.log
    stdout_stream.refresh_time = 0.3

    [plugin:statsd]
    use = circus.plugins.statsd.StatsdEmitter
    host = localhost
    port = 8125
    sample_rate = 1.0
    application_name = example

    [socket:web]
    host = localhost
    port = 8080



circus - single section
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    **endpoint**
        The ZMQ socket used to manage Circus via **circusctl**.
        (default: *tcp://127.0.0.1:5555*)
    **pubsub_endpoint**
        The ZMQ PUB/SUB socket receiving publications of events.
        (default: *tcp://127.0.0.1:5556*)
    **stats_endpoint**
        The ZMQ PUB/SUB socket receiving publications of stats.
        If not configured, this feature is deactivated.
        (default: *tcp://127.0.0.1:5557*)
    **check_delay**
        The polling interval in seconds for the ZMQ socket. (default: 5)
    **include**
        List of config files to include. (default: None). You can use wildcards
        (`*`) to include particular schemes for your files.
    **include_dir**
        List of config directories. All files matching `*.ini` under each
        directory will be included. (default: None)
    **stream_backend**
        Defines the type of backend to use for the streaming. Possible
        values are **thread** or **gevent**. (default: thread)
    **warmup_delay**
        The interval in seconds between two watchers start. (default: 0)
    **httpd**
        If set to True, Circus runs the circushttpd daemon. (default: False)
    **httpd_host**
        The host ran by the circushttpd daemon. (default: localhost)
    **httpd_port**
        The port ran by the circushttpd daemon. (default: 8080)
    **debug**
        If set to True, all Circus stout/stderr daemons are redirected to circusd
        stdout/stderr (default: False)

.. note::

   If you use the gevent backend for **stream_backend**, you need to install the
   forked version of gevent_zmq that's located at
   https://github.com/tarekziade/gevent-zeromq because it contains a fix that has
   not made it upstream yet.


watcher:NAME - as many sections as you want
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    **NAME**
        The name of the watcher. This name is used in **circusctl**
    **cmd**
        The executable program to run.
    **args**
        Command-line arguments to pass to the program. You can use the python
        format syntax here to build the parameters. Environment variables are
        available, as well as the worker id and the environment variables that
        you passed, if any, with the "env" parameter. See
        :ref:`formating_cmd` for more information on this.
    **shell**
        If True, the processes are run in the shell (default: False)
    **working_dir**
        The working dir for the processes (default: None)
    **uid**
        The user id or name the command should run with.
        (The current uid is the default).
    **gid**
        The group id or name the command should run
        with. (The current gid is the default).
    **env**
        The environment passed to the processes (default: None)
    **copy_env**
        If set to true, the local environment variables will be copied and
        passed to the workers when spawning them. (Default: False)
    **copy_path**
        If set to true, **sys.path** is passed in the subprocess environ
        using *PYTHONPATH*. **copy_env** has to be true.
        (Default: False)
    **warmup_delay**
        The delay (in seconds) between running processes.
    **numprocesses**
        The number of processes to run for this watcher.
    **rlimit_LIMIT**
        Set resource limit LIMIT for the watched processes. The
        config name should match the RLIMIT_* constants (not case
        sensitive) listed in the `Python resource module reference
        <http://docs.python.org/library/resource.html#resource-limits>`_.
        For example, the config line 'rlimit_nofile = 500' sets the maximum
        number of open files to 500.
    **stderr_stream.class**
        A fully qualified Python class name that will be instanciated, and
        will receive the **stderr** stream of all processes in its
        :func:`__call__` method.

        Circus provides three classes you can use without prefix:

        - :class:`FileStream`: writes in a file
        - :class:`QueueStream`: write in a memory Queue
        - :class:`StdoutStream`: writes in the stdout

    **stderr_stream.***
        All options starting with *stderr_stream.* other than *class* will
        be passed the constructor when creating an instance of the
        class defined in **stderr_stream.class**.
    **stdout_stream.class**
        A fully qualified Python class name that will be instanciated, and
        will receive the **stdout** stream of all processes in its
        :func:`__call__` method.
        Circus provides three classes you can use without prefix:

        - :class:`FileStream`: writes in a file
        - :class:`QueueStream`: write in a memory Queue
        - :class:`StdoutStream`: writes in the stdout

    **stdout_stream.***
        All options starting with *stdout_stream.* other than *class* will
        be passed the constructor when creating an instance of the
        class defined in **stdout_stream.class**.

    **send_hup**
        if True, a process reload will be done by sending the SIGHUP signal.
        Defaults to False.

    **max_retry**
        The number of times we attempt to start a process, before
        we abandon and stop the whole watcher. Defaults to 5.

    **priority**
        Integer that defines a priority for the watcher. When the
        Arbiter do some operations on all watchers, it will sort them
        with this field, from the bigger number to the smallest.
        Defaults to 0.

    **singleton**
        If set to True, this watcher will have at the most one process.
        Defaults to False.

    **use_sockets**
        If set to True, this watcher will be able to access defined sockets
        via their file descriptors. If False, all parent fds are closed
        when the child process is forked. Defaults to False.

    **max_age**
        If set then the process will be restarted sometime after max_age
        seconds. This is useful when processes deal with pool of connectors:
        restarting processes improves the load balancing. Defaults to being
        disabled.

    **max_age_variance**
        If max_age is set then the process will live between max_age and
        max_age + random(0, max_age_variance) seconds. This avoids restarting
        all processes for a watcher at once. Defaults to 30 seconds.


socket:NAME - as many sections as you want
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    **host**
        The host of the socket. Defaults to 'localhost'
    **port**
        The port. Defaults to 8080.
    **family**
        The socket family. Can be 'AF_UNIX', 'AF_INET' or 'AF_INET6'.
        Defaults to 'AF_INET'.
    **type**
        The socket type. Can be 'SOCK_STREAM', 'SOCK_DGRAM', 'SOCK_RAW',
        'SOCK_RDM' or 'SOCK_SEQPACKET'. Defaults to 'SOCK_STREAM'.


Once a socket is created, the *${socket:NAME}* string can be used in the
command of a watcher. Circus will replace it by the FD value.


plugin:NAME - as many sections as you want
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    **use**
        The fully qualified name that points to the plugin class.
    **anything else**
        Every other key found in the section is passed to the
        plugin constructor in the **config** mapping.


Currently `circus`is ships the following plugins, which you can configure as follows:

Statsd
******
    This plugin publishes all circus events to the statsd service.
    
    **use**
         set to 'circus.plugins.statsd.StatsdEmitter'

    **application_name**
        the name used to identify the bucket prefix to emit the stats to (it will be prefixed with "circus." and suffixed with ".watcher")

    **host**
        the host to post the statds data to

    **port**
        the port the statsd daemon listens on

    **sample_rate**
        if you prefer a different sample rate than 1, you can set it here


FullStats
*********

    An extension on the Statsd plugin that is also publishing the process stats. As
    such it has the same configuration options as Statsd and the following.

    **use**
        set to 'circus.plugins.statsd.FullStats'

    **loop_rate**
        the frequency the plugin should ask for the stats in seconds. Default: 60.


RedisObserver
*************

    This services observers a redis process for you, publishes the information to statsd
    and offers to restart the service when it doesn't react in a given timeout. This
    plugin requires `redis-py <https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py>`_  to run.

    It has the same configuration as statsd and adds the following:

    **use**
        set to   'circus.plugins.redis_observer.RedisObserver'

    **loop_rate**
        the frequency the plugin should ask for the stats in seconds. Default: 60.

    **redis_url**
        the database to check for as a redis url. Default: "redis://localhost:6379/0"

    **timeout**
        the timeout in seconds the request can take before it is considered down. Defaults to 5.

    **restart_on_timeout**
        the name of the process to restart when the request timed out. No restart triggered when not given. Default: None.



HttpObserver
************

    This services observers a http process for you by pinging a certain website
    regularly. Similar to the redis observer it offers to restart the service on an
    error. It requires `tornado <http://www.tornadoweb.org>`_  to run.

    It has the same configuration as statsd and adds the following:

    **use**
        set to 'circus.plugins.http_observer.HttpObserver'

    **loop_rate**
        the frequency the plugin should ask for the stats in seconds. Default: 60.

    **check_url**
        the url to check for. Default: "http://localhost/"

    **timeout**
        the timeout in seconds the request can take before it is considered down. Defaults to 10.

    **restart_on_error**
        the name of the process to restart when the request timed out or returned
        any other kind of error. No restart triggered when not given. Default: None.


.. _formating_cmd:

Formating the commands and arguments with dynamic variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As you may have seen, it is possible to pass some information that are computed
dynamically when running the processes. Among other things, you can get the
worker id (WID) and all the options that are passed to the :class:`Process`.
Additionally, it is possible to access the options passed to the
:class:`Watcher` which instanciated the process.

.. note::

   The worker id is different from the process id. It's a unique value,
   starting at 1, which is only unique for the watcher. 

For instance, if you want to access some variables that are contained in the
environment, you would need to do it with a setting like this::

    cmd = "make-me-a-coffee --sugar $(CIRCUS.ENV.SUGAR_AMOUNT)"

This works with both `cmd` and `args`.

**Important**:

- All variables are prefixed with `circus.`
- The replacement is case insensitive.
